---
date: 2017-09-19T20:57:08-04:00
title: Authorization Code 
---

# Code

This is a service that support authorization code grant type. The authorization 
code grant type is used to obtain both access tokens and refresh tokens and is 
optimized for confidential clients. Since this is a redirection-based flow, the 
client must be capable of interacting with the resource owner's user-agent 
(typically a web browser) and capable of receiving incoming requests (via 
redirection) from the authorization server.
   
The service accepts user credentials and redirects back authorization code with 
redirect URI defined in the client registration or overwritten it by passing in 
a redirect URI in the request.

## Request

The client constructs the request URI by adding the following parameters to the 
query component of the authorization endpoint URI using the 
"application/x-www-form-urlencoded" format.

* response_type

REQUIRED. Value MUST be set to "code".

* client_id

REQUIRED. The client identifier.

* redirect_uri
         
OPTIONAL. Redirect URI.

* scope

OPTIONAL. The scope of the access request.

* state
         
RECOMMENDED. An opaque value used by the client to maintain state between the 
request and callback. The authorization server includes this value when redirecting 
the user-agent back to the client. The parameter SHOULD be used for preventing
cross-site request forgery.


* code_challenge

OPTIONAL. PKCE Code challenge. Required for Mobile Native App
 
* code_challenge_method 

OPTIONAL. S256 or plain if platform doesn't support S256.
 

## Authorization Response

If the resource owner grants the access request, the authorization server issues 
an authorization code and delivers it to the client by adding the following 
parameters to the query component of the redirection URI using the 
"application/x-www-form-urlencoded" format.

* code
         
REQUIRED. The authorization code generated by the authorization server.  The 
authorization code MUST expire shortly after it is issued to mitigate the risk 
of leaks. A maximum authorization code lifetime of 10 minutes is RECOMMENDED.  
The client MUST NOT use the authorization code more than once. If an 
authorization code is used more than once, the authorization server MUST deny 
the request and SHOULD revoke (when possible) all tokens previously issued based 
on that authorization code. The authorization code is bound to the client 
identifier and redirection URI.

* state
         
REQUIRED if the "state" parameter was present in the client authorization 
request. The exact value received from the client.

## Error Response
        
If the request fails due to a missing, invalid, or mismatching redirection URI, 
or if the client identifier is missing or invalid, the authorization server 
SHOULD inform the resource owner of the error and MUST NOT automatically redirect 
the user-agent to the invalid redirection URI.

If the resource owner denies the access request or if the request fails for 
reasons other than a missing or invalid redirection URI, the authorization server 
informs the client by adding the following parameters to the query component of 
the redirection URI using the "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" format.

### error

REQUIRED. A single ASCII [USASCII] error code from the following:

* invalid_request

The request is missing a required parameter, includes an invalid parameter value, 
includes a parameter more than once, or is otherwise malformed.

* unauthorized_client

The client is not authorized to request an authorization code using this method.
  
* access_denied
        
The resource owner or authorization server denied the request.
  
* unsupported_response_type

The authorization server does not support obtaining an authorization code using 
this method.
  
* invalid_scope

The requested scope is invalid, unknown, or malformed.
  
* server_error

The authorization server encountered an unexpected condition that prevented it 
from fulfilling the request.

(This error code is needed because a 500 Internal Server Error HTTP status code 
cannot be returned to the client via an HTTP redirect.)
  
* temporarily_unavailable

The authorization server is currently unable to handle the request due to a 
temporary overloading or maintenance of the server.  (This error code is needed 
because a 503 Service Unavailable HTTP status code cannot be returned to the client 
via an HTTP redirect.)
  
Values for the "error" parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set 
%x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

### error_description

OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [USASCII] text providing additional information, 
used to assist the client developer in understanding the error that occurred.

Values for the "error_description" parameter MUST NOT include characters outside 
the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

### error_uri

OPTIONAL. A URI identifying a human-readable web page with information about the 
error, used to provide the client developer with additional information about the 
error.
         
Values for the "error_uri" parameter MUST conform to the URI-reference syntax and 
thus MUST NOT include characters outside the set %x21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.
    
### state

REQUIRED if a "state" parameter was present in the client authorization request.  
The exact value received from the client.
    
         
## Implementation

There are two endpoints and the service default listening port is 6881. 

Here is the specification:

```
swagger: '2.0'

info:
  version: "1.0.0"
  title: OAuth2 Service Authorization Code
  description: OAuth2 Service that logs in user and provide authorization code. 
  contact:
    email: stevehu@gmail.com
  license:
    name: "Apache 2.0"
    url: "http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html"
host: oauth2.networknt.com
schemes:
  - http
  - https

consumes:
  - application/json
produces:
  - application/json

paths:
  /oauth2/code:
    get:
      description: Return 302 redirect with authorization code
      operationId: getAuthCode
      parameters:
      - name: "Authorization"
        description: "encoded username:password mandatory if Basic Authentication is used"
        in: "header"
        required: false
        type: "string"
      - name: "response_type"
        in: "query"
        description: "The response type for authorization code"
        required: true
        type: "string"
        enum:
        - "code"
      - name: "client_id"
        in: "query"
        description: "The client id for authorization code"
        required: true
        type: "string"
      - name: "redirect_uri"
        in: "query"
        description: "The redirect uri for authorization code"
        required: false
        type: "string"
      - name: "username"
        in: "query"
        description: "The user name for authorization code"
        required: false
        type: "string"
      - name: "password"
        in: "query"
        description: "The password for authorization code in clear text"
        required: false
        type: "string"
      - name: "state"
        in: "query"
        description: "to prevent cross-site request forgery"
        required: false
        type: "string"
      - name: "scope"
        in: "query"
        description: "scope of the request"
        required: false
        type: "string"
      responses:
        302:
          description: "Successful Operation"

    post:
      description: Return 302 redirect with authorization code
      operationId: postAuthCode
      consumes:
      - "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
      produces:
      - "application/json"
      parameters:
      - name: "j_username"
        in: "formData"
        description: "User name"
        required: true
        type: "string"
      - name: "j_password"
        in: "formData"
        description: "Password"
        required: true
        type: "string"
      - name: "response_type"
        in: "formData"
        description: "Response type"
        required: true
        type: "string"
        enum: 
        - "code"
      - name: "client_id"
        in: "formData"
        description: "Client Id"
        required: true
        type: "string"
      - name: "redirect_uri"
        in: "formData"
        description: "Redirect Uri"
        required: false
        type: "string"
      - name: "state"
        in: "formData"
        description: "to prevent cross-site request forgery"
        required: false
        type: "string"
      - name: "scope"
        in: "query"
        description: "scope of the request"
        required: false
        type: "string"
      responses:
        302:
          description: "Successful Operation"
```

### /oauth2/code@get

The get endpoint is the most used as it is very simple and supported by all browsers
without any customization. When request is received by the service, the following
validations or processes are done before issuing a authorization code redirect.

* Make sure that user credentials are passed in. Otherwise, it will redirect the
browser to display popup window to collect userId and password. The username and
password will be passed in as Basic Authorization header. The passed in userId
and password will be matched with cached password(which is hashed and salted). If
userId and password combination is not valid, then a brand new popup window will
be shown. Depending on browsers, an error message will be shown up after several
times of retries.

* If password is incorrect, then the following error will return.

```
  "ERR12016": {
    "statusCode": 401,
    "code": "ERR12016",
    "message": "INCORRECT_PASSWORD",
    "description": "Incorrect password."
  }
```

* Make sure that response_type and client_id are passed in as parameters. If not, 
the following error will be returned.

```
  "ERR11000": {
    "statusCode": 400,
    "code": "ERR11000",
    "message": "VALIDATOR_REQUEST_PARAMETER_QUERY_MISSING",
    "description": "Query parameter '%s' is required on path '%s' but not found in request."
  }
```

* If response_type doesn't equal "code" then the following error will return

```
  "ERR11002": {
    "statusCode": 400,
    "code": "ERR11002",
    "message": "VALIDATOR_REQUEST_PARAMETER_ENUM_INVALID",
    "description": "Value '%s' for parameter '%s' is not allowed. Allowed values are <%s>."
  }
```

* Make sure client_id passed in is valid again in memory client cache. If not, 
then the following error will be returned.

```
  "ERR12014": {
    "statusCode": 404,
    "code": "ERR12014",
    "message": "CLIENT_NOT_FOUND",
    "description": "Client %s is not found."
  }
```

* As you can see from the specification, there is an optional parameter called 
redirect_uri. If this parameter is passed in, it will be used to redirect the
authorization code. Otherwise, the default redirect_uri from client_id will be
used. This is retrieved from in memory client cache. The url is populated when
client is registered during on-boarding process.



### /oauth2/code@post

To be completed later
